added docs for app log points; cleaned up api log points a bit (#105)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/log-points.adoc

= Anypoint Monitoring Log Points

> 

Author: ```suggestion
The Log Points feature in Anypoint Monitoring allows you to generate logs for apps and APIs in real-time and without writing code. For apps, you can specify the level of logs you want to generate, and for APIs, you can specify properties for the logs. You can generate these logs without restarting your application. 
```

== Log Points for Apps

The Log Points feature for apps enables you to log information from connectors in any Mule app in real time. If you are using one of the supported connectors, you can select a log level (debug, info, warn, or error) and generate logs.

=== Prerequisites

> 

Reviewer: Notice that the Prereq text below includes a transition fragment that leads to the list.
Choose one format and use it in both (all) peer texts consistently.
I do not feel strongly about which format you use.

Author: ```suggestion

To use this feature, you must have the following:

```

* A https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Titanium subscription] to Anypoint Monitoring and Mule 3.8.5 or later
* The *Runtime Manager > Manage Settings* permission

=== Supported Connectors

The following Anypoint Connectors are available for use with the Log Points feature.

.Supported Connectors
|===

> |Connector |Supported for Mule 3.x |Supported for Mule 4.x

Reviewer: Another way to avoid repeating is to include Anypoint Connector in the column title: "Anypoint Connector for..."
and then have entries like "Amazon S3 (Amazon S3 Connector)".
Would that work for things like Object Store: "Object Store (Object Store Connector)"?
Then we could be more parallel.

|Amazon S3
|x
|x

|Amazon SQS
|x
|x

|Database
|x
|x

|Email
|x
|x

|File
|x
|x

|FTP
|x
|x

|IBM MQ
|
|x

|JMS
|x
|x

|Microsoft Service Bus
|x
|x

|MongoDB
|x
|x

|MQ
|x
|x

|Object Store
|x
|x

|Salesforce
|x
|x

|SFTP
|x
|x

|Sockets
|
|x

|TCP
|x
|

|UDP
|x
|

|VM Transport
|x
|x

> |WMQ

Author: WMQ is listed in the UI. I am going by what is in the UI since that is what Monitoring customers know.

|x
|

|===

=== Supported Mule Versions

* Mule 3 versions 3.8.5 and later
* Mule 4 versions 4.1.1 and later

=== Enable App Log Points

> . Sign into Anypoint Platform and navigate to Anypoint Monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to Anypoint Platform and navigate to Anypoint Monitoring. 
```

> . In the menu on the left, click *Log Points*.

Reviewer: Can we call "the menu on the left" "the navigation menu"?

Author: ```suggestion
. In the Anypoint Monitoring navigation menu, click *Log Points*.
```

> . Select the following, then click *Select*: +

Reviewer: Does this step mean that you select environment + Select and then select resound name + select?
Or does it mean select environment, resource name, and then Select?
And why do we define environment and resource name, which are intuitive...unless you really mean that you both select and provide a value for each?
Clarify.
It might be easier to make this two steps instead of a step with two UI elements (which should probably be formatted as substeps rather than options).

Reviewer: Also, GLOBALLY omit hyphens as text separators. Replace with a new line or a colon, and do not end fragments following a lead term with a period:

.. *Environment* : the environment in which the app is running
OR
.. *Environment*
   The environment in which the app is running

* *Environment* - The environment in which the app is running.
* *Resource name* - The name of the app.
. Select the connectors for which you want to generate logs.
. Select a log level for each connector.
. Click *Save & Apply*. +

> A message that your configuration has been applied appears at the top of the page with a *View API Logs* link.

Reviewer: Do we really need to document how the UI responds to the step, if that is self-evident in the UI?

Author: I would think so. It's subtle.

> A message that your configuration has been applied appears at the top of the page with a *View API Logs* link.

Author: ```suggestion
A message that your configuration has been applied appears at the top of the page with a *View API Logs* link. The logs may take a moment to appear.
```

> . Click the *View Logs* link to view the logs for the selected log point. +

Author: ```suggestion
. Click the *View Logs* link to view the logs for the selected log point.
```

> The logs may take a moment to appear.

Author: ```suggestion
```

[NOTE]

> If you selected trace or debug log levels, you should disable the log point monitoring when you are finished, as it can impact your application's performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you select either the trace or debug log level, disable log point monitoring when you are finished, to avoid slowing your application's performance.
```

== Log Points for APIs

> The Log Points feature for APIs enables you to interactively extract data from running managed APIs. You can specify properties (for example, the host and method in the request header) in your managed API for which to generate logs without having to write code or redeploy your application. This helps you troubleshoot without having to restart the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Log Points feature for APIs enables you to interactively extract data from running managed APIs. You can specify properties of your managed API (for example, the host and method in the request header) for which to generate logs without having to write code or redeploy your application. This helps you troubleshoot without having to restart the application.
```

Reviewer: Even the suggested sentence reorg is a bit awkward.
Given the sentence below, can we just omit the parenthetical text above?

Author: I don't think we should omit it since "properties" on its own means absolutely nothing.

For example, you can specify a cookie header in an API to see if an injection attack is in progress. The log data for the specified cookie header is automatically displayed in real time on the Logs page.

=== Prerequisites

> To use this feature, you must have the following:

Reviewer: See previous comment re. this intro fragment not included in the peer text above.

Author: Added it above.

* A https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Titanium subscription] to Anypoint Monitoring and Mule 3.8.5 or later
* The *API Manager > Manage Policies* permission

=== Supported APIs

> Log points is supported on the following types of APIs:

Reviewer: Text above uses "The following [[Anypoint Connectors]] are available for use with the Log Points feature:" for the same purpose. Standardize phrasing of peer texts throughout a topic set.

Author: ```suggestion
The following types of API are available for use with the Log Points feature:
```

= Anypoint Monitoring Log Points

== Log Points for Apps

The Log Points feature for apps enables you to log information from connectors in any Mule app in real time. If you are using one of the supported connectors, you can select a log level (debug, info, warn, or error) and generate logs. 

=== Prerequisites

* A https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Titanium subscription] to Anypoint Monitoring and Mule 3.8.5 or later
* The *Runtime Manager > Manage Settings* permission

> === Supported Connectors

Reviewer 2: I think a three-column table called Supported Connectors might work. Here is an example, where you could put a checkmark or something similar in a cell to indicate that a connector is supported. (I don't know the key sequence to do a check mark).

Connector  |  Mule 4x. | Mule 3x
Anypoint Connector for Amazon S3 (Amazon S3) | x |  x

Use the naming convention above for most connectors. I am not sure about the naming conventions for the DB, Email, or Object Store connectors. Mongo should be MongoDB

Author: Oh, I like that idea.

> If you are using Mule 3.x, the following connectors are supported:

Reviewer 3: Maybe the workaround is something like:
If you are using Mule 3.x, the following Anypoint Connectors are supported:
I don't know. This might be a Kim question.

Author: My rationale for separate lists is knowing more connectors will be added later.

* Amazon S3
* Amazon SQS
* Anypoint MQ

> * DB

Reviewer 3: Database

Author: ```suggestion
* Database
```

* Email
* File
* FTP
* JMS
* Microsoft Service Bus

> * Mongo

Reviewer 3: MongoDB

Author: ```suggestion
* MongoDB
```

* Salesforce
* SFTP
* Object store
* TCP
* UDP
* VM Transport
* WMQ

If you are using Mule 4.x, the following connectors are supported:

* Amazon S3
* Amazon SQS
* Anypoint MQ

> * DB

Reviewer 3: Database

Author: ```suggestion
* Database
```

* Email
* File
* FTP
* JMS
* Microsoft Service Bus

> * Mongo

Reviewer 3: MongoDB

Author: ```suggestion
* MongoDB
```

= Anypoint Monitoring Log Points

== Log Points for Apps

The Log Points feature for apps enables you to log information from connectors in any Mule app in real time. If you are using one of the supported connectors, you can select a log level (debug, info, warn, or error) and generate logs. 

=== Prerequisites

* A https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Titanium subscription] to Anypoint Monitoring and Mule 3.8.5 or later

> * The `???` permission

Author: ```suggestion
* The *Runtime Manager > Manage Settings* permission
```

=== Supported Connectors

If you are using Mule 3.x, the following connectors are supported:

* Amazon S3
* Amazon SQS
* Anypoint MQ
* DB
* Email
* File
* FTP
* JMS
* Microsoft Service Bus
* Mongo
* Salesforce
* SFTP
* Object store
* TCP
* UDP
* VM Transport
* WMQ

If you are using Mule 4.x, the following connectors are supported:

* Amazon S3
* Amazon SQS
* Anypoint MQ
* DB
* Email
* File
* FTP
* JMS
* Microsoft Service Bus
* Mongo
* Salesforce
* SFTP
* Object store

> * TCP

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * UDP

Author: ```suggestion
* Sockets
```

* VM Transport

> * WMQ

Reviewer 4: In Mule 4.x this connector is called IBM MQ

Author: ```suggestion
* IBM MQ
```

=== Supported Mule Versions

* Mule 3 versions 3.8.5 and later
* Mule 4 versions 4.1.1 and later

> // verify!!

Author: ```suggestion
```

=== Prerequisites

To use this feature, you must have the following:

* A https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing[Titanium subscription] to Anypoint Monitoring and Mule 3.8.5 or later
* The *Runtime Manager > Manage Settings* permission

=== Supported Connectors

The following Anypoint Connectors are available for use with the Log Points feature.

.Supported Connectors
|===
|Supported Anypoint Connectors |Supported for Mule 3.x |Supported for Mule 4.x

|Amazon S3
|x
|x

|Amazon SQS
|x
|x

|Database
|x
|x

|Email
|x
|x

|File
|x
|x

|FTP
|x
|x

|IBM MQ
|
|x

|JMS
|x
|x

|Microsoft Service Bus
|x
|x

|MongoDB
|x
|x

|MQ
|x
|x

|Object Store
|x
|x

|Salesforce
|x
|x

|SFTP
|x
|x

|Sockets
|
|x

|TCP
|x
|

|UDP
|x
|

|VM Transport
|x
|x

|WMQ
|x
|

|===

=== Supported Mule Versions

* Mule 3 versions 3.8.5 and later
* Mule 4 versions 4.1.1 and later

=== Enable App Log Points

. Log in to Anypoint Platform and navigate to Anypoint Monitoring. 
. In the Anypoint Monitoring navigation menu, click *Log Points*.

> . Select the following, then click *Select*: +

Author: ```suggestion
. Select the following: +
```

> * *Environment* - The environment in which the app is running.

Author: ```suggestion
* *Environment*: The environment in which the app is running.
```

> * *Resource name* - The name of the app.

Author: ```suggestion
* *Resource name*: The name of the app.
```

> . Select the connectors for which you want to generate logs.

Author: ```suggestion
. Click *Select*.
. Select the connectors for which you want to generate logs.
```

. Select a log level for each connector.
. Click *Save & Apply*. +

> A message that your configuration has been applied appears at the top of the page with a *View API Logs* link. The logs may take a moment to appear.

Author: ```suggestion
A message that your configuration has been applied appears at the top of the page with a *View API Logs* link. The logs might take a moment to appear.
```

= Anypoint Monitoring Log Points

> The Log Points feature in Anypoint Monitoring allows you to generate logs for apps and APIs in real-time and without writing code. For apps, you can specify the level of logs you want to generate, and for APIs, you can specify properties for the logs. You can generate these logs without restarting your application. 

Author: ```suggestion
The Log Points feature in Anypoint Monitoring allows you to generate logs for apps and APIs in real-time and without writing code. For apps, you can specify the level of logs you want to generate, and for APIs, you can specify properties for the logs. This allows you to extract logs on-demand from applications in real-time, without causing re-deployment or application downtime. Permissions control allows you to manage access. All logs seamlessly flow into log management
```

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: This might need a bit more emphasis than Note.

> All basic endpoint APIs are displayed in the selectors regardless of whether or not the registered API has a supported Mule runtime engine version. If a log point is saved for a basic endpoint API with an unsupported version, the application policy fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All basic endpoint APIs are displayed in the selectors regardless of whether the registered API has a supported Mule runtime engine version. If you save a log point for a basic endpoint API with an unsupported version, the application policy fails.
```

Reviewer: I think that the previous text probably needs some rewording to be consistent with the text you have already changed. I did not try to do this, because I did not want to affect the tech accuracy.

=== Supported Mule Versions

* Mule 3 versions 3.8.5 and later
* Mule 4 versions 4.1.1 and later

=== Enable API Log Points

. Sign into Anypoint Platform and navigate to Anypoint Monitoring.

> . In the menu on the left, click *Log Points*.

Author: ```suggestion
. In the Anypoint Monitoring navigation menu, click *Log Points*.
```

. Select the following, then click *Select*: +
* *Environment* - The environment the API is running in.
* *Resource name* - The name of the API.

> * *Version/Instance* - The version and instance of the API.

Reviewer: DITTO edits made to the peer process above.

  ** Hybrid proxy

[NOTE]
All basic endpoint APIs are displayed in the selectors regardless of whether the registered API has a supported Mule runtime engine version. If you save a log point for a basic endpoint API with an unsupported version, the application policy fails.

=== Supported Mule Versions

* Mule 3 versions 3.8.5 and later
* Mule 4 versions 4.1.1 and later

=== Enable API Log Points

. Sign into Anypoint Platform and navigate to Anypoint Monitoring.
. In the Anypoint Monitoring navigation menu, click *Log Points*.

> . Select the following, then click *Select*: +

Author: ```suggestion
. Select the following: +
```

> * *Environment* - The environment the API is running in.

Author: ```suggestion
* *Environment*: The environment the API is running in.
```

> * *Resource name* - The name of the API.

Author: ```suggestion
* *Resource name*: The name of the API.
```

> * *Version/Instance* - The version and instance of the API.

Author: ```suggestion
* *Version/Instance*: The version and instance of the API.
```

> . Select the *Request* points to log and monitor. +

Author: ```suggestion
. Click *Select*.
. Select the *Request* points to log and monitor. +
```

* *Referrer* +
You can click the blue box to the left of *Header*, to select all log points. +

> Select *Body* to monitor the *Request Body*.

Reviewer: Reevaluate whether we really need to list all of these, given the image provided.

You can click the blue box to the left of *Header* to select all log points.

> Select *Body* to monitor the *Response Body*.

Reviewer: ditto

. Click *Save & Apply*. +

> A message that your configuration has been applied appears at the top of the page with a *View API Logs* link. The logs may take a moment to appear.

Reviewer: DITTO previous comment about this text. Also, the previous used this format:
```suggestion
A message that your configuration has been applied appears at the top of the page with a *View API Logs* link.
The logs might take a moment to appear.
```

. Click the *View API Logs* link to view the logs for the selected log point. +

[NOTE]

> When you are finished monitoring API log points, you should disable the log point monitoring, as it can impact your application's performance.

Reviewer: DITTO edits to same text for apps

> When you are finished monitoring API log points, you should disable the log point monitoring, as it can impact your application's performance.

Author: ```suggestion
When you are finished monitoring API log points, disable log point monitoring to avoid slowing your application's performance.
```
